We now have our first object you've mapped.
Let's take a look at it in the scene and see which way our seems are pointing here.
I'll go back to object mode press the division key on the number pad and well actually let me go back
to edit mode here.
And this is the direction of our Uvas and that's not bad.
I almost think we should face this part of the object out toward our scene.
So I'm going to go back to object mode.
I'll press the End key and go to my rotate to begin rotating around the z axis and it looks like I can
just type in 90 in the z axis here.
And then I'll press the End key again and that should.
Yeah that gives us the least amount of seams pointing out into our scene.
All right so that one's been U-V mapped.
What I'd like to do real quick is go ahead and replace these with this one.
I'll switch back to my default view and I'll zoom in to this one here.
And what I'd like to do is just take this one and copy it and replace these others instead of me going
through and U-V mapping each and every one of these.
What I can do is just snap the cursor to the selected object then I can delete the object then I can
take this one that's already been U.V. mapped duplicated click and then with shift Das moved the selection
to the cursor and there we go.
So now I'll take this one.
Move the cursor delete it.
Take this one duplicate click and move this to the cursor.
So I'll just do that for the rest of these here.
All right so now I have five U-V mapped pillar caps.
Well now that we're here why don't we take a look at one of these pillars the pillars are of course
more cylindrical.
There are two pieces and also we need to make sure that our seams are back here in the back of the cylinder
rather than appear in the front.
So I'll go back to my U-V editing lay out and press the period key and then the division key on the
number pad.
And let's go ahead and go into it mode.
We can see through this because there's this ghost image turned on here this sort of guy limit selection
to visible.
If I click that that will turn off that kind of transparent thing going on there.
I kind of like it so I don't see through it.
All right.
So let's think about this how should we go about this if we just selected everything and hit the Yuuki
and hit on RAP.
That's what we get.
So that's just pretty much all the polygons laid one on top of the other and that's not going to be
very helpful.
So we don't want to do that.
Probably our best bet would be to mark seems first of all maybe along here someone a press option and
select this edge and that will mark an edge all the way up to the top here so we can see what happens
when we do this we can press control e Mark seam select just this top piece with the LTE and then press
you and unwrap a little better.
But there's still stretching up here and I think the reason why there is stretching is because we've
got this cap on it.
If I de-select this I'm going to select these two edges here here and here and on press control E and
I'm going to choose clear seems so that will clear the seam from those two edges.
What I think I'd like to do is split this top piece out from the rest of the column.
So I'm going to select this top edge here and press control E and Mark seem.
Now let's try this Amona once again hover over an edge press the key.
So I just select the top part of the column I'll press you and unwrap Malik what is done it's split
out that top piece here into it's own U.V. island which allowed this part of the pillar to be laid out
in a much cleaner more flat kind of way.
So it looks like we may need to do that with the bottom here too.
Let's take a look to get access to that piece down there.
What I'm gonna do is press shift.
H.
And that will hide all of the unselected pieces and now have access to this down here.
And let's just split it out into its own U.V. shell.
So I want to go to edge mode and select these two edges and press control E and clear seam and then
I'm going to select this edge around the bottom here and I'll make that a seam with control E and Marxian.
Now let's try this again.
I'm going to select everything press you and unwrap.
Now that looks better.
Now we've split out the top and the bottom caps and now the pillar lays out in a more flat uniform way.
Let's press alt h to bring back that other piece and let's take a look at this.
So I'm going to hover over an edge press l press shift H.
And then I'll press the period key on the numpad to zoom in.
So I go to edge mode and select this edge with alt and select control.
Easy Mark seem press alt and select that edge control the mark seam.
And now since I've got a seam back here it's going to break up the sides and split it out and lay it
out flat.
Based on that scene so I'll select everything hit you and unwrap and that looks a whole lot better.
So I'll press old H to bring back the other part of the pillar.
Now here's the key to select everything.
And here is a problem we now see that the U-V maps are the U-V islands of the two different parts of
the object are overlapping.
So we need to somehow figure out how to get these U-V Islands out so they aren't on top of each other.
Now one thing I could do is come down here to the U-V islands select and I can click on one that I could
hit the G key and move it around so I could select these hit she move it around and try and get them.
So they aren't overlapping on a more complex object.
This would be really tedious in Blender.
We have a nice couple of features here.
The average Island scale tool and the pack islands.
So what them do is press the key to select all the U.V. islands of the object.
And then I get to come down here to Uvas and you can see in here we've got tools one is called Average
Island scale or control a.
And the other is pack islands control.
So not only do we have to avoid overlapping but we also need to pack everything within the zero to one
space.
So what we can do is press control a to average Island scale.
In other words it's going to make everything proportionally the same size as the objects are in the
3D model.
And then I want a press control P and that packs everything into the 0 2 space.
Now I can also click this rotate and that will change the alignment of it.
So now we've got our U-V map of our pillar and that looks pretty good.
Now the one last thing we should do here is test if there is any stretching and how the texture is going
to look on our object before we begin applying our texture.
We really need to test that.